adding ignore_above mapping parameter docs (#9508)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _field-types/mapping-parameters/ignore-above.md

---
layout: default
title: ignore_above
parent: Mapping parameters
grand_parent: Mapping and field types
nav_order: 45
has_children: false
has_toc: false
---

# ignore_above

The `ignore_above` mapping parameter limits the maximum number that are permitted for a string to be indexed. If the length of a string exceeds the specified threshold, the value is stored with the document but is not indexed. This can help prevent the index from bloating with unusually long values and can keep queries efficient.

By default, if you do not specify `ignore_above`, all string values will be fully indexed.

## Example: Without ignore_above

Create an index with a keyword field without the `ignore_above` parameter using the following command:

```json
PUT /test-no-ignore
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "number": {
        "type": "keyword"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

Index a document with a long string value using the following command:

```json
PUT /test-no-ignore/_doc/1
{

>   "number": "123456789012345"

Reviewer: Why not use text as example as its more relevant?

```json
POST /test-no-ignore/_search
{
  "query": {
    "term": {
      "number": "123456789012345"
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

Expected result:

```json
{
  "took": 10,
  "timed_out": false,
  "_shards": {
    "total": 1,
    "successful": 1,
    "skipped": 0,
    "failed": 0
  },
  "hits": {
    "total": {
      "value": 1,
      "relation": "eq"
    },
    "max_score": 0.13353139,
    "hits": [
      {
        "_index": "test-no-ignore",
        "_id": "1",
        "_score": 0.13353139,
        "_source": {
          "number": "123456789012345"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Example: With ignore_above

Create an index with the `ignore_above` parameter set to `10` on the same field using the following command:

```json
PUT /test-ignore
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "number": {
        "type": "keyword",
        "ignore_above": 10
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

Index the same document with the long string value using the following command:

```json
PUT /test-ignore/_doc/1
{
  "number": "123456789012345"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

Run the search query using the following command:

```json

> POST /test-ignore/_search

Reviewer: Should we show that the document is still present ? 

```
{
    "query": {
        "match_all": {}
    }
}

{
    "took": 498,
    "timed_out": false,
    "_shards": {
        "total": 1,
        "successful": 1,
        "skipped": 0,
        "failed": 0
    },
    "hits": {
        "total": {
            "value": 2,
            "relation": "eq"
        },
        "max_score": 1.0,
        "hits": [
            {
                "_index": "test",
                "_id": "2",
                "_score": 1.0,
                "_source": {
                    "number": "123456789012345"
                }
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

---
layout: default

> title: ignore_above

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Ignore above
```

parent: Mapping parameters
grand_parent: Mapping and field types
nav_order: 45
has_children: false
has_toc: false
---

> # ignore_above

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Ignore above
```

> The `ignore_above` mapping parameter limits the maximum number of characters for an indexed string. If a string's length exceeds the specified threshold, the value is stored with the document but is not indexed. This can help prevent the index from bloating with unusually long values and can keep queries efficient.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `ignore_above` mapping parameter limits the maximum number of characters for an indexed string. If a string's length exceeds the specified threshold, the value is stored with the document but is not indexed. This can help prevent the index from bloating with unusually long values and can ensure efficient queries.
```

> The `ignore_above` mapping parameter limits the maximum number of characters that are permitted for a string to be indexed. If the length of a string exceeds the specified threshold, the value is stored with the document but is not indexed. This can help prevent the index from bloating with unusually long values and can keep queries efficient.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `ignore_above` mapping parameter limits the maximum number of characters for an indexed string. If a string's length exceeds the specified threshold, the value is stored with the document but is not indexed. This can help prevent the index from bloating with unusually long values and can keep queries efficient.
```

By default, if you do not specify `ignore_above`, all string values will be fully indexed.

## Example: Without ignore_above

> Create an index with a keyword field without the `ignore_above` parameter using the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create an index with a `keyword` field without specifying the `ignore_above` parameter:
```

```json
PUT /test-no-ignore
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {

>       "number": {

Reviewer: Kindly change the field name

        "type": "keyword"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Index a document with a long string value using the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Index a document with a long string value:
```

```json
PUT /test-no-ignore/_doc/1
{
  "sentence": "text longer than 10 characters"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Running a search term query for the full string using the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run a term query for the full string:
```

```json
POST /test-no-ignore/_search
{
  "query": {
    "term": {
      "sentence": "text longer than 10 characters"
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

The document is returned because the `sentence` field was indexed:

```json
{
  ...
  "hits": {
    "total": {
      "value": 1,
      "relation": "eq"
    },
    "max_score": 0.13353139,
    "hits": [
      {
        "_index": "test-no-ignore",
        "_id": "1",
        "_score": 0.13353139,
        "_source": {
          "sentence": "text longer than 10 characters"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Example: With ignore_above

> Create an index with the `ignore_above` parameter set to `10` on the same field using the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create an index with the `ignore_above` parameter set to `10` on the same field:
```

```json
PUT /test-ignore
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "sentence": {
        "type": "keyword",
        "ignore_above": 10
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Index the same document with the long string value using the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Index the same document with the long string value:
```

```json
PUT /test-ignore/_doc/1
{
  "sentence": "text longer than 10 characters"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Run the search term query using the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run a term query for the full string:
```

```json
POST /test-ignore/_search
{
  "query": {
    "term": {
      "sentence": "text longer than 10 characters"
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> There are not hits returned because the string in field `sentence` exceeded the `ignore_above` threshold and was not indexed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
No results are returned because the string in the `sentence` field exceeded the `ignore_above` threshold and was not indexed:
```

```json
{
  "took": 3,
  "timed_out": false,
  "_shards": {
    "total": 1,
    "successful": 1,
    "skipped": 0,
    "failed": 0
  },
  "hits": {
    "total": {
      "value": 0,
      "relation": "eq"
    },
    "max_score": null,
    "hits": []
  }
}
```

> However the document is still present, which can be confirmed using the following request:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
However, the document is still present, which can be confirmed using the following request:
```

> However the document is still present, which can be confirmed using the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However the document is still present, which can be confirmed using the following request:
```

```json
GET test-ignore/_search
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Returned hits include the document:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The returned hits include the document:
```
